# MATH-441
Learning Portfolio Cover Letter Math 441

This learning portfolio contains learning artifacts which I have been working on over the semester. Each element of my portfolio explores a different area of mathemtical optimization or how I can state a problem as an optimization problem. My interests lie more in applying concepts and designing algorithms than proving mathematical theorems, so my learning portfolio reflects this by  focusing on implementing solutions to problems which I chose to explore. My process of creating my learning artifacts was I would find ideas either from lectures or from my own research that I would like to explore further. Once I had the idea I would do some reading or watch youtube videos on the topic, I find that watching youtube videos is usually easiest way for me to learn. Once I had some more background information on the topic I would like to explore I would start trying different methods and exploring different solutions. The artifact in this portfolio that I am the most proud of would be the l1 vs l2 regression model as I think it demonstrated some good mathematical concepts and also incorperated some data science techniques to process the dataset that I was working on. The most challeging part for me of creating my learning portfolio was to making sure I properly explained all of the steps I did throughout my work. This is difficult for me as I typically get excited an like to hop right into the problem,  but going back and documenting what I did and why did help me to cement my understanding. The most enjoyable part of the learning portfolio was being able to freely explore the areas that we are specifically interesting to us. For example I was interested in areas such as where does optimization fit into machine learning? In my portfolio I explored a couple different machine learning models and the optimization problems which are used in them. I also did one learning portfolio that was related to one of my interests in my personal life I applied the travelling salesperson to creating a world surf tour, this was fun for me as it included one of my favourite hobbies. If I were to give guidance to other students when creating their own learning portfolio I would recommend that they try to do their portfolios on the areas that are exciting to them. I would also recomend that they discuss their ideas with their peers and professors and ta's so they can get lots of feedback. For my final grade I will propose a grade of 80%. I believe that this is a suitable grade for my portfolio as my porfolio focused on my interests while still having a lot of variety in the types of problems I looked into. I believe that all of my portfolio had proper structure and formatting, and in each learning artifact I organized my information in a way that I believe my peers in  math 441 would be able to understand. I believe that my artifacts for the most part were creative as multiple artifacts used ideas that were not discussed in class. Overall, I have learned a lot through each artifact that I produced and I feel proud of each artifact. 
